[Docs] Minor improvements to `adding_params.md` (#623)
pokt-network/poktroll: docusaurus/docs/develop/developer_guide/adding_params.md

title: Adding On-Chain Module Parameters
---

# Adding On-Chain Module Parameters <!-- omit in toc -->

- [Adding a New On-Chain Module Parameter](#adding-a-new-on-chain-module-parameter)
- [Step-by-Step Instructions](#step-by-step-instructions)
  - [1. Define the Parameter in the Protocol Buffers File](#1-define-the-parameter-in-the-protocol-buffers-file)
  - [2 Update the Parameter E2E Tests](#2-update-the-parameter-e2e-tests)
    - [2.1 Scenario Example](#21-scenario-example)
    - [2.2 Scenario Outline Example](#22-scenario-outline-example)

>     - [2.3 Unit Test Example](#23-unit-test-example)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [2.3 Step Definition Helpers Example](#23-step-definition-helpers-example)
```

  When the "pnf" account sends an authz exec message to update all "proof" module params
    | name                | value | type  |
    | new_parameter_name  | 100   | int64 |
  Then all "proof" module params should be updated
```

#### 2.2 Scenario Outline Example

```gherkin
# NB: If you are reading this and any module has parameters that
# are not being updated in this test, please update the test.
Scenario Outline: An authorized user updates individual <module> module params
  Given the user has the pocketd binary installed
  And all "<module>" module params are set to their default values
  And an authz grant from the "gov" "module" account to the "pnf" "user" account for the "<message_type>" message exists
  When the "pnf" account sends an authz exec message to update "<module>" the module param
    | name         | value         | type         |
    | <param_name> | <param_value> | <param_type> |
  Then the "<module>" module param "<param_name>" should be updated

  Examples:
    | module | message_type                   | param_name         | param_value | param_type |
    | proof  | /poktroll.proof.MsgUpdateParam | new_parameter_name | 100         | int64      |
```

> #### 2.3 Unit Test Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 2.3 Step Definition Helpers Example
```

```go
func (s *suite) newProofMsgUpdateParams(params paramsMap) cosmostypes.Msg {
  msgUpdateParams := &prooftypes.MsgUpdateParam{
    Params: &prooftypes.Params{},
  }

  for paramName, paramValue := range params {
    switch paramName {
    case prooftypes.ParamNewParameterName:
      msgUpdateParams.Params.NewParameterName = uint64(paramValue.value.(int64))
    default:
      s.Fatalf("unexpected %q type param name %q", paramValue.typeStr, paramName)
    }
  }

  return msgUpdateParams
}
```

### 3. Update the Default Parameter Values

> In the corresponding Go file (e.g., `params.go`), define the default value for the
> new parameter and include it in the `NewParams` and `DefaultParams` functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the corresponding Go file (e.g., `params.go`), define the default value, key, and parameter name for the
new parameter and include the default in the `NewParams` and `DefaultParams` functions.
```

  poktrolld tx authz exec ./tools/scripts/params/proof_new_parameter_name.json $(PARAM_FLAGS)
```

### 6. Create a new JSON File for the Individual Parameter Update

Create a new JSON file (e.g., `proof_new_parameter_name.json`) in the appropriate
directory to specify how to update the new parameter.

```json
{
  "body": {
    "messages": [
      {
        "@type": "/poktroll.proof.MsgUpdateParam",
        "authority": "pokt10d07y265gmmuvt4z0w9aw880jnsr700j8yv32t",
        "name": "new_parameter_name",
        "as_int64": "100"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### 7. Update the JSON File for Updating All Parameters for the Module

Add a line to the existing module's `MsgUpdateParam` JSON file (e.g., `proof_all.json`)
with the default value for the new parameter.

```json
{
  "body": {
    "messages": [
      {
        "@type": "/poktroll.proof.MsgUpdateParams",
        "authority": "pokt10d07y265gmmuvt4z0w9aw880jnsr700j8yv32t",
        "params": {
          "min_relay_difficulty_bits": "0",
          "proof_request_probability": "0.25",
          "proof_requirement_threshold": "20",
          "new_parameter_name": "100" // Add this line
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

> ### 8. Add Parameter Validation

Reviewer: I think there's a step missing which is to include the new validation function in the corresponding `Param#ValidateBasic()` method. Wdyt about adding an 8.1 here which is that, and then making what's currently written become 8.2?

> Implement a validation function for the new parameter in the same Go file.

Reviewer: #PUC: "the same Go file" as which, params.go? I just read about the makefile and JSON files inbetween reading about params.go and here.

```go
func ValidateNewParameterName(v interface{}) error {
  _, ok := v.(uint64)
  if !ok {
    return fmt.Errorf("invalid parameter type: %T", v)
  }
  return nil
}
```

### 9. Add the Parameter to `ParamSetPairs()`

Include the new parameter in the `ParamSetPairs` function.

```go
func (p *Params) ParamSetPairs() paramtypes.ParamSetPairs {
  return paramtypes.ParamSetPairs{
    // Other existing parameters...

    paramtypes.NewParamSetPair(
      KeyNewParameterName,
      &p.NewParameterName,
      ValidateNewParameterName,
    ),
  }
}
```

### 10. Update Unit Tests

> Add tests to validate the new parameter in your test files (e.g., `params_test.go`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add tests which exercise validation of the new parameter in your test files (e.g., `params_test.go`
```

  for _, tt := range tests {
    t.Run(tt.desc, func(t *testing.T) {
      err := ValidateNewParameterName(tt.newParameterName)
      if tt.expectedErr != nil {
        require.Error(t, err)
        require.Contains(t, err.Error(), tt.expectedErr.Error())
      } else {
        require.NoError(t, err)
      }
    })
  }
}
```

#### 10.2 Parameter Update Tests

```go
func TestMsgUpdateParam_UpdateNewParameterNameOnly(t *testing.T) {
  var expectedNewParameterName uint64 = 100

  // Set the parameters to their default values
  k, msgSrv, ctx := setupMsgServer(t)
  defaultParams := prooftypes.DefaultParams()
  require.NoError(t, k.SetParams(ctx, defaultParams))

  // Ensure the default values are different from the new values we want to set
  require.NotEqual(t, expectedNewParameterName, defaultParams.NewParameterName)

  // Update the new parameter
  updateParamMsg := &prooftypes.MsgUpdateParam{
    Authority: authtypes.NewModuleAddress(govtypes.ModuleName).String(),
    Name: prooftypes.ParamNewParameterName,
    AsType: &prooftypes.MsgUpdateParam_AsInt64{AsInt64: int64(expectedNewParameterName)},
  }
  res, err := msgSrv.UpdateParam(ctx, updateParamMsg)
  require.NoError(t, err)

>   require.Equal(t, expectedNewParameterName, res.Params.NewParameterName)

Reviewer: Wdyt about adding a comment that says that this test should also assert that all other params of the same module remain unchanged. See: https://github.com/pokt-network/poktroll/blob/main/x/proof/keeper/msg_server_update_param_test.go#L39.
